.TH chreipl 8 "May 2008" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
chreipl \- Change the re-ipl configuration for Linux on System z

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchreipl\fR [ACTION] [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchreipl\fR is a tool that can be used to simplify the re-ipl configuration
for Linux on System z. Using this tool you can configure a certain disk as well
as an optional entry in the bootmenu you can boot from during the next
reboot cycle.

IPL (Initial Program Load) is the mainframe synonym for what is called
"boot" in Linux. Accordingly re-IPL can be translated to "reboot" in the non
mainframe context.

.SH ACTION

The first argument specifies the component which should be modified:

\fBccw\fR     Select a ccw device (dasd) for configuration

\fBfcp\fR     Select a fcp device (device) for configuration

\fBnode\fR    Specify a boot target based on an existing device file

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-b\fR or \fB--bootprog\fR
Specify an optional entry in the boot menu to use for the next reboot.
The bootprog parameter only works in a FCP environment.

.TP
\fB-d\fR or \fB--device\fR
Specify a device number to boot from. The 4 as well as the 8 digit notation can
be used (e.g. 4711 is the same as 0.0.4711)

.TP
\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR
Print usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB-l\fR or \fB--lun\fR
Boot from a fcp attached storage device during the next re-ipl and use the following LUN.

A logical unit number (LUN) is a number assigned used to control devices on the
SCSI bus.

The LUN is a \fBhex\fR value.

.TP
\fB-L\fR or \fB--loadparm\fR

Specify an optional entry in the boot menu to use for the next reboot. This
option requires an alphanumeric or blank (" ") argument and only works if a
valid zipl bootmenu is present.
The Loadparm parameter only works in a DASD environment.

.TP
\fB-v\fR or \fB--version\fR
Print Version information and exit.

.TP
\fB-w\fR or \fB--wwpn\fR
Boot from a fcp attached storage device during the next re-ipl and use the following WWPN.

A World Wide Port Name (WWPN) is a unique identifier to a port in a fibre channel fabric in a storage area network.

The WWPN is a \fBhex\fR value.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
\fBchreipl node /dev/dasda\fR

Next time boot from device /dev/dasda.

\fBchreipl ccw 0.0.7e78 \fR

Use the ccw device with the number 0.0.7e78 using for the next system
start.

\fBchreipl ccw -d 0.0.7e78 -L 1\fR

After reboot, ipl from the ccw device with the number 0.0.7e78 using
the first entry of the boot menu.

\fBchreipl fcp --wwpn 0x500507630300c562 --lun 0x401040B300000000 \\\fR
            \fB-d 0.0.1700\fR

or

\fBchreipl fcp 0.0.1700 0x500507630300c562 0x401040B300000000\fR

Re-ipl from the fcp device number 0.0.1700 using WWPN 0x500507630300c562
and LUN 0x401040B300000000.

\fBchreipl node /dev/sda\fR

Use /dev/sda as the boot device for the next boot.


.SH ENVIRONMENT

This program is useful when executed within a z/VM or LPAR Linux environment.

SCSI re-ipl using fcp attached storage devices as shown in the last command in
the example section only works with recent kernels like 2.6.25.

.SH AUTHOR
This man-page was written by Hans-Joachim Picht <hans@linux.vnet.ibm.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lsreipl (8)
