.TH chshut 8 "May 2008" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
chshut \- Change the shutdown actions for Linux on System z

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchshut\fR [halt | poff | reboot] [ipl | reipl | stop | vmcmd] [VM Command]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchshut\fR is a tool that can be used to configure the Linux on System z
shutdown actions. It can control the system behavior in the following system
states: halt, power off and reboot.

The kernel configuration is controlled via entries below the /sys/firmware
directory structure.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBchshut\fR [state] [action] [vm command] (optional)


The \fBchshut\fR tool handles up to three parameters. The first specifies
the system state in which you want to change.

The second  argument specifies the action you want to execute in the previously
specified system state. Valid arguments are ipl, reipl, stop and vmcmd

In case you have chosen vmcmd as action a third parameter is used for the
command you want to execute inside z/VM.

Note for vmcmd users: VM commands, device addresses, and guest names
must be uppercase.


.SH EXAMPLES
\fBchshut halt ipl\fR

If the system is halted it should start again.

\fBchshut halt vmcmd LOGOFF\fR

Log off the z/VM guest if the Linux halt command was executed successfully

\fBchshut poff vmcmd "MSG MASTER Going down" vmcmd "LOGOFF"\fR

If the Linux poweroff command is executed, send a message to guest MASTER and
automatically log off the guest.

.SH NOTES

In some Linux distributions, "halt" might be mapped by default
to "power off". In this case you have to set "poff" instead of "halt".

.SH ENVIRONMENT

This program is useful when executed within a z/VM or LPAR Linux environment.

The action vmcmd can only be used while running in z/VM.

.SH AUTHOR
This man-page was written by Hans-Joachim Picht <hans@linux.vnet.ibm.com>.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dumpconf (8)
.BR lsshut (8)
