.TH cpuplugd.conf 5 "Oct 2007" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
cpuplugd.conf \- Configuration file for the Linux for System z CPU and Memory Hotplug Daemon

.SH DESCRIPTION
The cpuplugd.conf configuration file contains the configuration information for
the Linux for System z CPU Hotplug Daemon.

Using the cpuplugd.conf configuration file, one can specify several different
rules used to enable or disable cpus or to change the amount of memory.

\fB CPU hotplug\fR

CPUS can be enabled and disabled via an interface within the /sys filesystem.
The status file for a certain CPU, here CPU16 (counting starts at 0), is 
/sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu15/online

Writing a 0 into this file causes the CPU to be disabled whereas the input of
1 enables this CPU.

\fB Memory hotplug\fR

The memory hotplug (memplug) and memory hotunplug (memunplug) rules exploit  the
cooperative memory management (CMM) feature. 

This is a mechanism to reduce the available memory of a Linux guest.
CMM allocates pages to a dynamic page pool not available to Linux.
A diagnose code indicates to z/VM that the pages in the page pool are out of
use. z/VM can then immediately reuse these pages for other guests.

\fB Layout of the configuration file\fR

To  be  able to specify rules within a certain range of limits, the
configuration file is divided into two sections. Whereas the first section 
contains static variables for min and max values, rule definitions can be found 
in the second section.

The \fBfirst section\fR contains static variables of the format \fBkey=value\fR 
where "key" may  be any of the following options:

	*\fBcpu_min\fR the minimum amount of cpus to keep online

	*\fBcpu_max\fR the maximum number of cpus to enable

	*\fBupdate\fR update interval (in seconds)

	*\fBcmm_min\fR the minimum size of the static page pool

	*\fBcmm_max\fR the maximum size of the static page pool

	*\fBcmm_inc\fR the amount of pages the static page pool is increased if a rule is matched.

If the value of cpu_max is 0, the overall number of cpus found in this system
is used as the maximum.

In this section \fBvalue\fR only refers to positive numbers. 

Within the \fBsecond section\fR rule definitions are found. Four kinds of rules are
distinguished:

	*\fBhotplug\fR rules, used to enable cpus

	*\fBhotunplug\fR rules, to disable cpus

	*\fBmemplug\fR rules, used to increase the available memory

	*\fBmemunplug\fR rules, to decrease the amount of memory

Within the \fBhotplug\fR and \fBhotunplug\fR rule definitions the following 
variables can be used:

	*\fBloadavg:\fR the current load average

	*\fBidle:\fR the current idle percentage

	*\fBonumcpus:\fR  the actual  number of cpus which are online

	*\fBrunable_proc:\fR the current amount of runnable processes


\fBmemplug\fR and \fBmemunplug\fR rules can contain the set of keywords listed
blow: 

	*\fBapcr:\fR The amount of page cache reads (as listed in vmstat in the bi and bo fields)

	*\fBfreemem:\fR The amount of free memory (in Megabyte)

	*\fBswaprate:\fR  The number of swapin and swapout operations  (as listed in vmstat in the si and so field)


To generate terms which can be evaluated, the above described variables as well as 
numbers can be connected using the following symbols:
    \fB+ * ( ) / - < >\fR

Furthermore boolean operators like \fB & \fR (and) \fB|\fR (or) and \fB!\fR (not)
can be used.

If you specify multiple rules of a kind (e.g. hotplug and hotunplug), only the last ruleset will be
evaluated.

.SH EXAMPLES

An exemplary configuration file looks like this:

.nf
	update="60"
	cpu_min="2" 
	cpu_max="5"
	cmm_min="32"
	cmm_max="4096"
	cmm_inc="128"

	hotplug = "(loadavg > onumcpus + 0.75) & (idle < 10.0)"
	hotunplug = "(loadavg < onumcpus - 0.25) | (idle > 50)"

	memplug = "(swaprate > freemem+10) & (freemem+10 < apcr)"
	memunplug = "(swaprate > (freemem +10000))"
.fi

Every 60 seconds the daemon checks if a given rule matched against the
current system state.

In the second and the third line the minimum and maximum amount of cpus is
specified. This setup ensures that at least two cpus are online at any given 
time and never more than 5 cpus get activated.

The three variables below are related to the memory hotplug feature.
The minimum (cmm_min) and maximum (cmm_max) size of the static page pool of cmm is defined.

The cmm_inc variable specifies the amount of pages the static page pool is
increased (decreased) if a memplug (memunplug) rule is matched.

In this configuration the cpu hotplug daemon tries to enable a cpu if the
current load average (loadavg) is greater than the number of online cpus 
(onumcpus) plus 0.75 and the current idle percentage (idle) is below 10 percent.

The hotunplug term disables a cpu if one of the following conditions is
matched: The load is below the number of active cpus minus 0.25 or the idle 
percentage is above 50 percent.

Furthermore the variable runable_proc, which represents the current
number of running processes can be used.

The memplug rule below is matched when the current swaprate (as shown in the
output of the vmstat  command) is greater than the current amount of free memory (in
megabyte) plus 10. Furthermore the sum of the free memory (in megabyte) plus 10 
has to be less than the current amount of page cache reads (apcr).

Please keep in mind that the defined memplug and memunplug rules in the 
example above are only used to illustrate the syntax of the rules. They are
not suitable for any production system and make semantically no sense.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
cpuplugd(8)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
This man-page was written by Hans-Joachim Picht <hans@linux.vnet.ibm.com>.
.fi
