.TH cpuplugd 8 "Oct 2007" "s390-tools"

.SH NAME
cpuplugd \- Linux for System z CPU and Memory Hotplug Daemon

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcpuplugd\fR [-c \f <configuration file>\fR] [-f] [-h] [-v] [-V] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcpuplugd\fR is a daemon that dynamically enables and disables
cpus or increases the memory based on a set of rules.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB-c\fR or \fB--config\fR  [-c \f <configuration file>\fR]
Specify the absolute path to the configuration file

.TP
\fB-f\fR or \fB--foreground\fR
Do run in the foreground and not as daemon. If this option is
omitted the program starts to run in the background.

.TP
\fB-h\fR or \fB--help\fR
Print usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB-v\fR or \fB--version\fR
Print Version information and exit.

.TP
\fB-V\fR or \fB--verbose\fR
Verbosely print messages to stdout (when running in foreground) 
or to syslog otherwise.
This options is mainly used for debugging purposes.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
In order to test the first setup it is useful to start cpuplugd
in foreground mode using verbose output
    cpuplugd -V -f -c /etc/sysconfig/cpuplugd

For daemon mode cpuplugd should be started from an init script as follows
    cpuplugd -c /etc/sysconfig/cpuplugd

.SH STANDARDS

If the daemon is stopped, the size of the memory as well as the number of
active CPUs is changed to the values found within the system prior to daemon
startup.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

This program is useful  when executed within a z/VM or LPAR Linux environment.
The CMM feature (memory hotplug) can not be used inside an LPAR environment.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
cpuplugd.conf(5)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
This man-page was written by Hans-Joachim Picht <hans@linux.vnet.ibm.com>.
.fi
